This reference system card file, I presume what
this is something you developed over a long period
of years. Many years. In fact, I, you asked me if I
took it with me. I said the courage is because I had,
I wrote so small. If a student wanted to read that,
I'd have to read it for him. I used so many
abbreviations and but mainly the reference where
they could go to the library and get it. And those
were published in mimeograph form and made
available. Now, what is this that was published in
mimeograph form? These cards. The cards, I see.
The most significant ones. One was, well, I had
some that weren't worth putting on there, like
newspaper, reference to newspaper clipping.
Sometimes you get into folklore stuff that way and
hearsay evidence and I'd mark it whether it was
research evidence or clinical evidence and
because I found attorneys don't, they want that
research material so I marked all those that way
for my
use so you uh your your reference would be to
something in in in literature whether it be a
journal article or a section of a book or something
oh yes
i take it you are continuing to add to your file yes i
haven't kept it up as well as i should uh
But every once in a while I find one. I use four by six
index cards, plain, no ruling, just plain cards.
Break them right on both sides, very small, and get
the, you might say, an abstract of a sort.
Because I'm advising students as to whether it
would be worthwhile. run off, pick one by title,
it'd be just a cull that would not be very
desirable. And so I would code these as to whether
they're good or excellent, or poor, and
for a student's guide.
Okay, the same story, I believe, said you had
pioneered the development of electronics to
amplify cardiac, respiratory, and peristaltic
sounds. For what, would this be used during
operations on animals or just in diagnosis?
During classwork, Dr. George T. Eads, who's now
head of Veterinary Science at the University of
Florida, was the one who joined me in 36. He
deserves a lot of credit for that. The two of us
worked together. And we sought the advice of Dutch
Dillingham and Electrical Engineering and
others who might have had some experience with the
old, with the radio station. on recorders and
amplifiers, and we followed their advice in the
sound systems.
They were quality materials. However,
we did not buy one of those tape recorders. Dutch
advised us if we were going to buy. This was back in
the late 30s, early 40s. He said the experience
with the radio is that if you want a tape recorder,
you better spend $1,000 for it and get a good one. He
says a lot of them are just toys. So we never did get
that one.
So what, I mean, do you... We amplified sounds,
oh... In swallowing, for example, and also in the
voice box at the larynx, put it on the vocal cords.
And having to swallow water, preferably a bottle
of Coke, because you'd hear those bubbles, just
like a boiler factory, so to speak. The little
bubbles would pop in the stock, and you'd hear
them. and
students could get those sounds that they'd never
heard before because of the lack of
amplification.
It was, they were very instructive tools and I went
to Cornell for by two-week workshops on two
occasions. And Dr. H. H. Dukes, who was head of
Physiology at Cornell University,
pioneered in the use of instruments, physical
instruments and electronic instruments for
teaching methods. I gained a great deal of
knowledge from those workshops.
Let me see if I can. If you had, say, an animal that
you suspected had a respiratory ailment, you
could then put the equipment on that animal and
listen to the animal breathe. The whole class then
can hear it. Oh, yes. As opposed to each one having
to use a stethoscope to hear it individually. That
is right. That's right. It would, that way then the
whole class could hear it one time and hear the
entire proceedings and then would be able to
remember that sound and if they heard it again in
another animal they could draw a comparison
between the two cases then. Yes, there are
different sounds in different animals, even in
normal animals you get different sounds. It was a
near experience for them, for us too. Is this, I
take it, the same type of equipment is still being
used? Oh yes, but to get more sophisticated
equipment out there now and use physiographs
which developed at Baylor University in Baylor
Medical College in Houston. And we used to use the
camographs, the old smoked, but put carbon, a
layer of carbon on slick white paper, and then use
writing points that would leave a white on black
background. But there are a lot of objections to
it. Some students would spend a lot of time
smoking, and others would ruin it. and you can
teach much more with a physiograph and you can work
about five students to a physiograph and of course
a lot of this electronics is push button work and
you need somebody to keep them working but they
have employees who take care of that.
I guess more and more come to realize since I've
been here that you use a lot of the same equipment
and same techniques on animals as medical doctors
do on humans. Well, there are some similarities,
yes. Electrocardiograph and
electroencephalograph.
We use stethoscopes and we use other instruments,
otoscopes for the ear. And
quite a bit of it is, in fact, we've purchased some
from medical supply houses.
We
talked a little bit earlier before we turned the
machine on about the
evolution of co-education at Texas A&M. Did the
School of Vet Medicine have any girls prior to the
undergraduate school here at A&M having girls?
No, our first girl,
I think graduated in 67, I believe. And then we had,
Perhaps you graduated in 66, and then we had about
four in 67.
Now
they have quite a few, around 30. That
is in one class. So they're, what then, three
classes? Is the vet medicine degree a three year?
It's a three-year consisting of three semesters
per year. So you have three classes going at one
time per second and third year? First, second, and
third years.
What was the rationale behind switching vet
medicine from a semester to the trimester basis?
Greater utilization of equipment, time, and the
employees were put on 12 months basis. Some of them
had previously had been on nine months.
And
greater utilization of all equipment and
manpower, both.
fairly
sophisticated
complex of buildings and machinery over there,
and if you were only on two semesters per year, you
had a third of the year during which it basically
stands idle.
I think it's much better on a trimester than
semester basis. When you were on a semester, was it
then a four-year program? Yes, and then of course
two years pre-vet and then four years veterinary
medicine. Nine months each. Now how many years of
pre-vet do you have?
They don't have a pre-vet curriculum as such. They
take
68 credit hours and they are They're advised, they
can take the pre-vet at other institutions, but
they are advised to take certain courses,
required courses. But of course some of them come
to us with degrees, masters and even doctorates.
And on an occasional doctorate would come, go
through, but a number of them with bachelor
degrees. But say if a student comes to Texas A&M
with the intention ultimately of going to vet
school, he would be an undergraduate probably
what, three years? And then if he is fortunate to
get into vet school? Well 68 hours, I think he could
get that and possibly less if he goes to summer
school, less than three years.
So, Of that 68 hours, you say there's no
prescribed... Yes, some prescribed courses,
yes. What I'm saying is there's no real prescribed
curriculum. There are required courses. Yes.
About what percentage... It's more flexible that
way rather than a
prescribed pre-vet program. About what
percentage of those 68 hours are required
courses?
all 68 I think now wait a minute they have might have
several electives in there but they
have to have 68 I don't recall now the required
courses that have so many hours minimum of organic
chemistry a minimum of Physics, I think eight
hours of physics, and I think 10
or 12 hours of chemistry, I believe. I don't recall
now. But,
and some animal science courses.
At an earlier period, you had a prescribed
two-year pre-vet course, I take it. Oh, yes. And
then for those who were accepted to the vet school,
another four years of drug medicine. That's
right. The thing that makes it better for the
student where the prescribed pre-vet, they'd
take courses they wouldn't need. This way, they
can apply most of these courses on other degree
plans. So, in other words, there were probably a
number of kids who went through pre-vet and then
didn't get into the vet school. That's right.
Excuse me a minute. Do you remember at what point
this prescribed pre-vet curriculum was
discontinued? Hasn't been too long. Two or three
years. Two or three years, I see. I don't recall. So
it was after you retired? Oh yes, that's right. Had
there been some talk of discontinuing it before
then? Not that I recall. But do you have any idea as
to why it was discontinued? No, I don't. To help
students save their time and so that they could
apply that work on other degree plans if they
weren't successful in getting in. I imagine now
there's only a small percentage of those who apply
who actually get in, is there not? I don't recall.
Oh, a year or two ago, I talked to one of the members
of the selection committee. One out of three or
four or something like that would get in. So 25 to
30% perhaps of those who applied get in. I don't
recall how many applicants they had last year,
between 300 and 400, something like that. I don't
recall either. I have an acquaintance who teaches
over there, and I talked with him about it, but I
don't remember either.
The article about which I spoke earlier, written
at the time of your retirement, indicated you were
the author of numerous technical publications.
When you taught as many as 20 or more hours per week,
how did you find time to do research and writing?
I've been asked that question many times. I don't
know. Did, obviously, or well, I mean it isn't
obviously, I was wondering, I'm assuming that
these articles are based to a certain extent upon
research that you did. Some yes, some not. Some are
just for meetings. These would be papers
presented at meetings? Yeah, presented. But
obviously you don't just dream that information
that you pass out, that you include in the papers at
a meeting. I have a bibliography. I presented one
to the American Public Health Association in
Kansas City. I had a bibliography of several
hundred.
I used several hundred references to write that
paper.
Well, I assume that that reference system which
you devised and made available to students helped
you somewhat when you sat down to do a paper. A great
deal, yes. You
could get almost immediate access to the
technical literature and so forth. Were there any
other people in vet medicine who had similar
reference systems? I mean, I would assume that
your reference system would primarily cover
those areas of your responsibility rather than
all aspects of vet medicine. Yes, I kept one solely
on toxicology. In the early years, I had decided to
keep one in physiology, one in pharmacology, one
in toxicology. Those were the three cautious
areas. I found it impossible to do. So then I
restricted myself to toxicology. I mean, it was
too much of a task to keep all three of them. That's
right. We had good textbooks in physiology and
fairly good, not as good in pharmacology as
physiology, but when you have a good textbook to go
by. But when you don't have a very good textbook,
that means that you... I have to supplement this
with a mimeograph material. In fact, I had the
mimeograph material for toxicology. It was a
little better than a ream of paper between 500 and
600 pages. This was reproduced for each of the
students? Yes. I had many calls for that. And
finally, the budget forced me to restrict it to
students who took the course. Were these calls
from other campuses? Yes, not only, in other
countries too. Well I can imagine that word gets
around if you have something good. It got to be
quite a task with me.
I didn't even have my name on some of it. An
instructor left here and went to another school
and one of his co-workers used and gave him credit,
and he denied it. He said, no, that credit should be
to P.W. Burns at Texas A&M. He's the one who worked
at it. Occasionally I put my name on some of it, some
I wouldn't. It is work that is available to anyone
if you worked it out. Yeah, yeah. I've done some
bibliographical compiling in the past. It's an
interesting chore, but it's a chore
nevertheless. And errors, you have to be very
careful of errors creeping in. Yes, you do.
What types of things have you been doing since you
retired?
Oh, I did a little consulting work. didn't care too
much about it because there were potential court
cases. One of them did turn up in court. And
sometimes I was pitted against former students,
and I didn't like that. Sometimes I had former
graduates on my side and some opposing, which is
quite healthy, of course. But I disliked the
nature. of the work that is controversial.
This may be treading on dangerous ground here, and
I realize that where there are potential court
cases involved you can't go into a great detail,
but what is the nature of your consulting?
Poisons.
poisons and poisonous plants.
And then
I haven't kept up with the literature in the last
several years as well as I usually refer an inquiry
to the department where I'm sure they've kept up
with it much better in doing research work in those
areas. So
I enjoy manual labor now, have ever since I
retired.
While you were still on the faculty, did you ever do
any work with the experiment station,
agricultural experiment station? No, we didn't
have a, we were not, they do have a connection now in
the department, but not then.
Okay. Have you done any consulting abroad,
outside of the United States? No, not on
consulting cases. I've corresponded with some.
I was wondering, I sort of asked because so many of
our retired faculty people have gone abroad on AID
programs or something akin to that. Yes. No, I have
not.
Okay.